Hello everyone. Um, thank you so much
for joining me this afternoon in the
breakout room. The last session today of
code with Claude. I hope you've all had
a fantastic day so far. My name is
Margot Vanlar. I am an applied AI
engineer at Anthropic here in London.
And this afternoon, we're going to be
talking about the prompting playbook.
And prompting is arguably one of the
first skills, if not the first skill
that we had to learn as engineers when
we first started to work with LLMs. and
even now it continues to be one of the
most critical um skills to building
effective AI systems. So today we're
going to discuss some best practices
um in the context of two practical
scenarios that you're probably
encountering at work. The first is where
you have an existing prompt in
production that you've been maintaining
for some time um and possibly you're
migrating it to a new model or making a
change to the architecture and for some
reason it's no longer working as well.
The second scenario is where we're
building an entirely new agentic use
case from the ground up and we need to
build the prompt from zero to one.
Now,
in order to illustrate these best
practices, I don't just want to give you
a list of dos and don'ts. I want to walk
through a practical example that's been
inspired by real prompts that um I've
seen some of our customers work with who
are building on Claude. So, the prompt
that we'll look at today is a
miniaturized example. the prompts that
you're working with are probably a lot
longer and more complex than the one
we'll see today. Um, but it's
representative of some common problems
that you might encounter when
maintaining a prompt. So, imagine that
we have a prompt that multiple people
have been collaborating on, contributing
to. There's no clear owner. It covers a
lot of different areas like policy, like
tone, processes. um we have some patches
for kind of previous models that we've
migrated to all mixed together. Um it's
built up and it's complex. And when
we're migrating to a new model, we're
finding that suddenly a lot of our test
cases are no longer working as well as
we expected. So what's actually going on
here? Well, in order to start unpacking
that question, um we need a starting
point. And that starting point is
evaluations. We need evaluations to
provide that rigor um to understand
whether a change to our prompt is
actually correlating to an improvement
in its performance.
And we have different models which have
different capabilities and different
behaviors. And when you migrate to a
different model, it could be that your
system is no longer working as well for
two reasons. First of all, if um the new
model might be capable, but it's
behaving differently and therefore we
can tune our prompting to fix that
behavior. The second case is where
actually the model that we're changing
to isn't as capable and no amount of
prompting is going to fix that. So we
need to have an eval suite to act as a
way of testing that regression so that
we can apply our prompting best
practices to that.
So in the example that we're going to be
looking at today, as I said, it's going
to be a miniaturized example. We'll have
five test cases in our eval.
In reality, you'll have a lot more test
cases in your EVA suite, but the key
thing here is that it's representative
of three key cases that we need to
cover. Those three key cases include
having a control case, which is a case
which should always pass. It's something
that the we know the model handles well.
It's unambiguous.
The second is edge cases. And these are
cases where we've seen the model fail
before. And by including instructions
into the prompt, we're making sure that
same behavior doesn't slip through again
in the future. And finally, and
critically, we need to make sure that
the model has a good understanding of
the extent of its capabilities, where it
should be handing off to a human or
where actually maybe it should be point
blank refusing to answer a request.
So, in the example that we're going to
be looking at today, um we'll be using a
um prompt for a customer support bot for
a telco company called Meridian Mobile.
And these are the five test cases that
we are going to be looking at today. We
have a simple control case looking at um
you know what's the data limit in the
basic plan. Uh we're also looking at
edge cases such as its ability to do
calculations such as calculating
proration bills. If I switch my bill
halfway through the month uh or if I
switch my plan halfway through the
month, what will my bill look like? We
want to check that it's accurately
addressing key questions which are
covered by our policy.
um we need to make sure that it's
escalating to a human whenever there is
um a billing error. Um and finally, we
want to make sure that our model isn't
withholding any information that it has
access to, which it should be handing
over to the customer.
So what we're going to do in this
process is we'll take our prompt and
we'll run it on our v0ero um of of the
eval and we'll see what our failure
modes are and systematically target
those failure modes one at a time to see
if we can resolve those failure modes by
prompting and along the way we'll learn
a little bit more about the kind of
antiatterns uh um and traps to avoid
and this is representative of how we
would apply apply these best prompting
techniques in practice. Right? We are
rarely writing a prompt from scratch.
We're often debugging an existing
prompt.
And best practice before we start
targeting those failure modes
specifically is to kind of apply our
general prompting 101 best practices,
applying general hygiene to clean up
before we do the eval run. So let's have
a little look at the example that we're
going to be using. So what we're looking
at here first of all before we look at
the prompt is just this vibecoded web
app that I've made for the presentation
today so that we can look at how we're
iterating on the prompt together. Uh um
in this page here I can easily run my
evals on all five test cases and inspect
the results in a little bit more detail.
So before we have a look at the prompt
I'm just going to run the evals in the
background.
This is a pretty good first pass at a
prompt. When we look at this, we've
defined the bot's role at the top.
When we scroll down, um we've given it
some data. We've given it some
information on how to reason over uh um
the answers that it should be giving to
the customer. It's giving some critical
instructions around the tone it should
use, um how to do calculations, etc. And
then finally we're passing in our
customer account context and our user
message. So let's have a look at how our
first pass the evals did. So we can see
as we expect our control case all of our
test cases have passed. This is what we
expect for this unambiguous test case.
But it's performing pretty poorly in
these other areas. Now, before we zoom
in on those specific failure modes here,
let's do some general cleanup of our
prompt.
So, as we mentioned, when we look
through this prompt, there's a couple
oddities here already. So, for example,
first one is we're telling the bot that
it's um a human, which just isn't true,
right? We can see as we scroll down
there's clearly some information here
that has been copied directly from a
website. So the key giveaway here is a
reference to a hero image. Um there's
even some references to cookies um at
the bottom.
So we need to remove a bit of redundant
information.
When we look at the instructions here,
they're all grouped into one big
paragraph. So we've got some reasoning
here. We've got instructions about the
role. uh um some critical instructions
as well without a real way of unpacking
um policy from guidelines from tone etc.
So
let me just
I've preempted some changes we want to
make to this prompt and this is just a
diff view of some of those changes. So
what we've done is first of all added
some structure. So you can see that
we've added XML tags here to define the
role to separate general guidelines
to separate policy to separate tone of
voice
um etc.
So if we run that eval then on this new
updated prompt, we should hopefully see
an improvement in the output as is.
So we can see just by clearing up the
prompt, we've already improved the
model's performance on this prepaid
scenario.
There's an interesting regression there
in that fifth hotspot case and I don't
want to worry too much about that now.
There's going to be some natural level
of variance in the different runs of the
eval and we'll come back to that case
specifically to see if we can make the
prompt consistently better in that area.
So what did we learn from this then? Um,
simply clearing up the prompt with a
better structure, with a better role
description has improved the
performance. And this is a best practice
that you can return to at any stage of
writing and maintaining your prompt,
especially as your prompts get more
detailed and more complex. A general
rule of thumb that I like to follow is
if you're reading a prompt and you can't
tell guidelines from policy, from data,
most likely the model isn't able to
either.
So before looking at some of those cases
in more detail, there's a little bit
more general cleanup we can do. Um
specifically here looking at creating an
output contract. This is a key best
practice to follow if you're struggling
with your output format consistency. Now
in this case, we have a customer support
bot. We want it to reply in a
conversational tone. So it's unlikely to
be a big issue in this case, but it's
something to bear in mind if you you're
dealing with more complex output
structures like nested JSONs for
example.
So again, if we go back to the prompt
and see what fixes we can apply here.
First of all, we've added a section uh
um at the end where we've defined an
output format for the model telling it
to use uh um XML tags to output the
response. But the prompt is not always
the most effective way of handling
issues. We can also change things in the
harness to ensure consistency to a
higher degree. So what we've added here
to the API call is a stop sequence which
is going to detect that closing XML tag
and tell the model to stop generating a
response at that point. Now when I run
the eval here I don't necessarily expect
to see any clear improvement in
performance. Um, but it's a general best
practice that we should be following and
as I said is something that we should
remember in particular when we have more
complex output schemas.
One thing to point out here as well if
you do have a more complex output schema
something like structured outputs can be
incredibly helpful to ensure that
consistency in a more programmatic way.
Okay. So after the cleanup then we can
see that we now have two test cases
which are consistently passing but we
have three key failure modes the
proration the billing error and the
hotspot. So let's isolate these one by
one um to iterate on the prompt and and
see the effect of that.
First of all then the hotspot question.
So the question is how much hotspot data
is on my unlimited plan. What we expect
the model to do is state directly the
amount of hotspot data that the customer
has.
And the reason this is a slightly
complex case is because the customer
test case that we're dealing with is on
a legacy plan. So actually the current
policy doesn't apply to them. So if we
see what's going on in the actual test
case here, the customer data which we're
feeding uh um to the prompt includes the
amount of hotspot data that customer
has. They have 5 gigabytes, right? But
they also have a grandfathered plan. So
what we're seeing uh the model is
actually telling the customer is
the general um the unlimited plan
includes 4 GB um but since you're on a
legacy plan you should go check this out
yourself.
So let's have a look at the prompt then
to see um why the model
is deflecting this question to the
customer account URL rather than
actually giving the information itself.
Now if we read this prompt originally it
said we changed our plans recently and
the policy doc shows the current plan
data and customers on grandfather's plan
have different rates. Never give a
customer the wrong plan details. instead
point them to the URL. So it's clear
that this instruction, this latter one,
never give customer the wrong
information, is the instruction that the
bot has been optimizing for. And you
might recognize this as being very
similar to a patch that you might have
introduced in a previous model that you
were using to avoid where the model was
giving the customer the wrong
information about that plan. Now, as our
models have evolved, they have gotten
much better at instruction following.
So, it's likely that instructions like
these have now become redundant and are
actually being overfitted to.
So, what we're going to tell the model
instead is give this balanced view uh um
where it says, you know, customers on
grandfather's plan have different
allowances, but it's captured in the
customer information that's given and
that is the accurate source of truth.
So running the eval here we should
hopefully be addressing uh um all of the
test cases for the hotspot case. Now I
am running this live so there could be
some variability here but we see here
that now clearly all of our test cases
are are passing.
So what did we learn from this? Well, we
worry a lot about hallucinations or the
invention of facts and numbers, but
actually the opposite can also happen.
The model can withhold information that
it actually has access to. Now, we saw
here that this is likely a result of a
patch that we introduced for a previous
model. And a best practice that we could
follow here is actually using version
control where wherever we are making
defensive changes in the prompt, we are
tracking the reason why we've introduced
these. Sometimes they're necessary, but
in the future these kind of changes can
produce unwanted effects so that we can
backtrack on them.
So the next failing test case then is
this proration calculation where a
customer asks what if I upgrade to the
30 gigabyte plan? What will my next bill
be? And what we want the model to do is
to perform some calculation and return
exactly uh um what their next bill would
be rather than giving some sort of vague
output which is what we can see it's
doing right now. Uh um if we look at
what the model is returning,
it's clearly reasoning through it. It's
doing a little bit of mental maths here
and there, but it's not really giving
the customer a concrete answer. And I
wouldn't rely on this as being able to
accurately give the customer a response.
So if we look at the prompt then to see
how we can fix this
in the original prompt
we can see that all the instructions
that were given to it is telling it
don't ever give a customer a vague
answer. Uh um critical always calculates
any pr-rated amounts correctly. Now,
telling the model to do a good job isn't
particularly helpful when we don't give
the model the capability to actually do
a good job. We want to avoid the model
doing mental math. So, what we're going
to introduce is give the model a tool.
So, we're saying in the prompt whenever
you're doing any calculations, please
use the calculate proration tool to do
so.
In order to introduce that tool, we need
to introduce it into the API to tell the
model you have access to this tool. We
need to define um the tool schema which
tells the model what this tool does and
when to use it. And then finally we need
to actually implement the tool which is
the maths behind how it should be doing
that calculation.
So running that eval then for another
pass
we can see that all the test cases are
now passing. It's clearly done uh um the
maths using the tool in the background
and returning the correct response.
So the key lesson to take away here is
instructions don't add capability.
Telling the model it's critical to do a
calculation right doesn't make it better
at mental math. So the correct approach
was to give it a tool. Overall giving it
the ability to reason over harder
problems and using tools to actually
execute them reliably.
So now we have one final failing test
case which we need to address which is
this billing error here.
In this scenario there is a billing
conflict and what we really want is the
agent to escalate this to a human. And
what we're seeing it doing instead is
it's trying to
explain to the customer what the reason
behind it might be.
and it's trying to kind of diagnose the
problem itself.
So in order to fix this behavior, let's
again have a look what it was told in
the prompt.
We see in the initial instructions it
was giving, it says, "Avoid escalating
or transferring to a care specialist
unless absolutely necessary as it cost
approximately $8 and it counts against
our team's fast contract resolution."
Now, this is only giving one side of the
story, right? We're telling it what the
cost is to escalating, but not the
benefit, which means it's going to
overfit again to not escalating this
scenario. And second of all, we've got
this clear conflict between what we've
defined
in the eval in terms of what we want the
model to do to do this escalation versus
what we're actually telling it to do.
And the fix that's relevant here is to
give it both sides of the story by
saying it costs $8 uh um to escalate a
case, but actually if you get this
wrong,
then it's going to cost you a refund as
well as customer trust.
Again, here we observed how the model
optimizes for a goal. And this kind of
instruction is a common instruction to
give. It's quite similar to the one we
saw earlier where we didn't want it to
overfitit to a certain type of behavior.
But it's the kind of instruction that
can be followed quite differently by
different generations of models. And
specifically, as models become more
intelligent, we need to remember to
state both sides of the trade-offs
because our models are becoming better
themselves at making those tradeoffs
themselves.
So
if we just go back to our eval then and
um run our final test case,
we should see that all of our evals are
now passing correctly. So overall, we
looked at applying general hygiene
principles, how that can provide an
initial uplift to the prompt, making
sure we're removing any redundant
instructions which were initially
intended as patches for previous models
behavior, making sure we're giving it
tools to do certain tasks reliably.
Now there's one other scenario that we
uh introduced at the start which is one
that you might also encounter in your
work which is where we're building a new
agent from scratch. And the example that
we'll look at here is um an agent whose
purpose it is to create a week-long
retail staff schedule based on employee
availability and other constraints.
And when we're building a new agent from
scratch,
we need to consider not just the prompt,
but also the model that we're using and
the harness that we're using. So in this
next example, we're going to compare a
number of approaches to explore the
impact of those three different areas.
So again, I've just vcoded up this web
app so that we can walk through this
problem. Uh um in this demo here I've
just laid out what the problem is that
we're addressing. We have our eight
employees. Um on the right we have this
schedule that we need to staff with the
headcount and we have our constraints
that must be satisfied in every
scenario.
Now, because we have these hard rules,
rather than using an LLM judge like we
did in the previous case to do the
grading, we can actually use a just a
Python function which programmatically
checks for every schedule that's
generated how many violations were made.
So to begin with in a we want to start
simple. We're going to use a simple
prompt. We're going to use the bare
bones that we think we'll need with a
model set 46 to see how it performs and
how we're going to hill climb against
that. Um, so here is our baseline
prompt. We've already applied some of
that general hygiene and those best
practices that we saw earlier on using
XML tags to structure the prompt. We've
given it an output format as well. Now
that we're giving a schedule, uh we're
asking it to
output a JSON which if we don't give
that output structure might lead to
passing errors uh downstream.
When we run the
simple model on a first iteration of the
evals, all cases fail. Now, just what
we're looking at here is in our test
set, we're essentially repeating uh um
we're doing five trials here. Uh and
these numbers are showing how many
violations were made in each trial.
In the outputs, we can see that it's
made a decent attempt at reasoning
through the problem,
but it's burning a lot of tokens. Uh and
it's clearly not checking its work um as
it's not getting to the right impact. So
let's try a larger model uh a model
which we know is better at reasoning. So
we're going to run it through
uh Opus 4.7 instead
keeping everything else the same. Now,
interestingly, whilst all test cases are
still failing, you can see that the
overall number of violations that Opus
has made has reduced significantly from
Sonnet 4.6. So, we're possibly on to
something here, right? This isn't good
enough to ship because it's still
failing, but clearly giving it more
reasoning capability is helping drive it
towards a better result. So what we're
going to try next is using opus with
adaptive thinking instead. So it can
decide for itself
how much thinking it needs how much
reasoning it needs to use to solve this
issue. So no change to the prompt really
just uh a change to the API here.
So this now seems to reliably generate
compliance schedules, but it requires a
lot more tokens.
We're tripling essentially in the number
of tokens that we're using here, and
we're tripling the latency. So we want
to try and see if we can optimize that
cost latency trade-off a little bit
more. Um, this is latency 100 seconds.
Obviously, I'm running this one async.
uh for the purposes of time, Opus 47
hasn't magically gotten much faster
since the last time uh you used it. Um
so
let's see if we can optimize a little
bit more for the token latency tradeoff.
What we haven't tried yet is using
Sonnet 46. So a smaller model but with a
better prompt. We looked a lot at the
prompt optimization uh um in that last
section. So I've added a couple details
to the prompt here. We're talk we're
in particular how to uh reason through
this problem and most critically telling
it to check its work before outputting
it.
So when I ran that EAL we see that it
passes in two out of the five cases. Now
the failure modes that we're seeing is
actually not violations of
the scheduling requirements but the
model hasn't been able to finish the
tasks within the output limit that we
set. So whilst we could increase the max
tokens that this model is able to use to
get all five test cases passing,
we see here that we're using even more
tokens and this run has an even higher
latency. So this is probably not the
route that we want to go down.
Now as a final pass, then we want to
look at doing this a little bit more
agentically.
So we're going to use this generate
evaluate repair loop where essentially
the generator now creates a first draft
of the schedule and then we have a
separate prompt
which reports any specific violations
that it made. So not programmatically
checking it but checking it with an LLM.
So we're checking for every rule and
we're providing evidence of every
violation.
And we then have a third repair prompt
which receives uh any violations that
were made and tries to make targeted
fixes to it. So we have three very
simple prompts but they're now running
independently rather than trying to do
everything in one large prompt.
So we can see in this case our
agentic approach has solved all of our
test cases um with a much lower number
of tokens and with a lower latency than
trying Sonet 46
with a better prompt. So going forward,
it seems like there's two appropriate
approaches to take here. Using Opus 47
with adaptive thinking or using this
agentic loop. Now moving forward, we'd
probably want to do a little bit more
optimization on this loop to try and get
it to be more efficient. But there's one
key benefit as well from using this
generate evaluate repair loop. And that
is that you can put in soft requirements
at runtime. So in the evaluation prompt,
we can say Harry doesn't like working
with Sally. So as much as possible, try
and separate them from working together
or we need a third shift uh um on
Wednesday, for example. So it means that
you're not having to make changes to the
um Python function which is doing the
evaluation in the back end every time to
satisfy for any soft constraints which
might depend just on a case-byase basis.
So to wrap up then
pulling all of those learnings together,
what did we see? Well, we looked at two
scenarios. Two scenarios which I, as an
engineer, see most in my day-to-day,
which is where we're maintaining a
prompt. We're migrating to a new model
which has some different behaviors and
we're and building a new use case from
scratch. We saw that general hygiene
principles following those can and
immediately uplift the performance
against um a set of evals and that we
need those eval to be able to rigorously
see any impacts of changing our prompt
on the output. Then we saw this process
of targeting failure modes one by one,
adding structure, avoiding long band
lists, etc. were all things that helped
push our model to the correct behavior.
And then finally with our new agentic
bot that we were building, we saw the
impact of splitting
into three separate prompt systems. So
rather than using one prompt to address
everything, we're actually isolating
different tasks where it's easy and
repeatable to separate out the steps
that it needs to take every time.
Thank you so much for attending this
afternoon. I hope you have a fantastic
rest of your day.